Rights group said they've documented a
series of allegations suggesting war
crimes and human rights violations by
Israel during its military offensive in
Gaza nonprofit organization the eurom
Mediterranean human rights monitor has
submitted a report to the UN and the
international criminal court it details
execution style killings of civilians on
multiple occasions in one incident it
says Israel Israeli forces opened fire
on six family members killing them all
during a raid on their home in Gaza City
last week the group has also reported
allegations of the killing of elderly
civilians Israeli forces allegedly shot
at elderly Palestinians moments after
ordering them to leave their homes the
euromed monitor has called for that
International investigation after
recording testimonies alleging Israelis
buried some Palestinians alive that
reportedly happened when the Army
targeted the Kamal adwan Hospital in the
northern city of B lahia the UN and
Amnesty International have expressed
concern about the ill treatment of
Palestinian detainees including
deliberate humiliation torture and
forced disappearances of detainees as
young as 12 and as old as
70 let's talk to Muhammad shahada he is
the chief Communications officer at
eurom Mediterranean human rights Monitor
and he's joining us from Copenhagen via
Skype thank you very much for your time
firstly how do you get these testimonies
and how do you verify
them well basically we receive
testimonies from survivors of these
atrocities incredible atrocities as well
as Witnesses who were in the area so the
neighbors or or First Responders or
medical teams that were able to reach
that area although it's it's becoming
nearly impossible to access uh most of
the north part of Gaza but we also
verify it for instance with the death
records in hospitals and with our own
team members across the Gaza Strip we
have currently about 41 researchers in
Gaza that are trying their best to to
work under these enormously difficult
conditions but the image that we have is
basically that the north half of Gaza
Israel has turned it practically into
what Israeli officials and journalists
themselves describe as quote
extermination Zone and I emphasize it
extermination Zone that's is really
journalists using that term as well as a
sterile zone or a death zone what do
that what do those words mean what does
extermination zone
mean it means what the IDF told
Palestinians in the northern half of
Gaza early on in this war in this
assault they threw pamphlets on on the
northern half and said that every single
person that stays behind in the north is
going to be dealt with as an accomplice
to a terror organization so every single
person in the the northern half of Gaza
is treated as a terrorist suspect is
guilty until proven innocent that's on
the one hand on the other hand the
northern half of Gaza is systematically
denied any access to food Medical Care
water fuel Aid or electricity it's
literally a death zone that's what
Israelis are calling it so if you don't
die from air strikes or bullets you will
die from starvation and of course this
is extremely worrying because there is
nowhere else for people in the north to
go to there are stries
across Gaza the United Nations has been
saying that they're extremely concerned
about the situation in central Gaza now
about the bombardment of central Gaza
we're talking about the documentation
and the verification work that you're
doing this is of course very important
because you have sent a report to the
United Nations and to the international
criminal court demanding the
establishment of an international legal
team um that it secure entry into Gaza
and start an inquiry into civilians
being killed by Israeli forces does it
become more
difficult to document to verify the more
time goes on the longer um a team cannot
enter
Gaza well precisely we have a practical
and logistical difficulty at hand that
Israel has gone after journalists and
humanitarian workers and workers of
Human Rights organizations I personally
I lost three members of of my team in
Gaza that were killed in Israeli air
strikes and uh many members of our team
have been displaced to the South either
in schools or in overcrowded flats and
and some are even living on the street
so it's becoming incredibly difficult to
conduct this work on the ground but the
more time that passes the more Israel
has a chance to bury the evidence so for
instance destroying the neighborhoods
and the buildings where these atrocities
were committed therefore destroying the
crime scene but it's not an issue of
documentation we have ample
documentation on hand we have Survivor
testimonies we have the reports from the
hospitals directly the thisk
certificates of the victims and on top
of that we have the videos that you
showed earlier of Palestinians detained
in mass and humiliated released by the
IDF themselves these are videos released
by Israeli journalists and soldiers in
Gaza so documentation is there the
problem is that Western media on the one
hand is systematically refusing to show
this documentation to the Western
audience and European and American
government officials are refusing and
turning a complete Blind Eye to this
horrendous atrocious situation where
what we have on hand is crimes against
humanity being committed in
Gaza Mr shahada which of course makes
the work that you're doing so important
the fact that it it is
documented what do we know about how
Palestinian detainees are treated we've
seen the videos but what rights do they
have and what is your reaction to just
the latest
video well basically they don't have any
rights at all we have documented that
Israel has until now kidnapped about
3,000 people from Gaza some are released
few days after with unbelievable marks
of torture so there they they display
signs of of bullet wounds and display
signs of torture on their backs on their
arms and they've been blindfolded and
tied and starred for days so that's the
people that were released the people
that stay behind they are denied any
sort of legal counsel there are no
charges being pressed against them and
they not being put on trial and the red
trust does not have any access to them
let alone any sort of family visitation
or visitation by a lawyer in the
majority of these cases we honestly we
don't have any idea if people that were
taken by Israel are still alive or died
and we have received reports from
Israeli um newspapers and journalists
that multiple people in Israeli in
Israel's custody have died in prison
most likely under torture so there's
this huge blackout on the situation but
on the other hand the footage that you
see in Gaza Israel the way it goes is
that they go from door to door from one
home to one school to the other and
kidnap people in mass and gather all the
men include in some instances they even
kidnapped women we have reports that at
least seen pictures we have seen
pictures of of women in the trucks that
Israel has this forcing them to strip
almost completely naked and front of
camera including kids that are
apparently below the age of 10 it has
this sort of Victory image connotation
for an Israeli audience now Israel says
that we suspect they might have
explosive vists if you look at the
history of the conflict the last time a
Palestinian carried out such attack with
an explosive vest was about two decades
ago it has not there hasn't been a
single incident in this entire war of
over than two months almost three months
now where a single explosive a single
person with an explosive vest tried to
attack Israeli soldiers so it's
completely bogus but Israeli media the
way they deal with it is in Hebrew it's
a totally different message in Hebrew
they say we are teaching the gazan
population a lesson that they should
never think about that again and we are
trying to show this sort of Victory
image that we are winning the war okay
Mr shahada we thank you very much uh for
your time for your insights into this
and our condolences to your team for the
loss of three of your members in Gaza
that is Muhammad shahada of the euromed
human rights monitor
thank you